--- PAGE 1 ---
1Tribhuvan University
Faculty of Management
OfficeoftheDean
IT 352:Project
(BIM 6thSEMESTER)
Project Guidelines
Course Description:
The Project represents the culmination of study within the Bachelor of Information
Management. The project course provides students the opportunity to apply both theoretical
and practical aspects learned to develop a real -world software application. The fo cus will be
given in enabling students with the skills pertaining to the planning, analysis, design, and
implementation of a real -world application. The project can be done in groups with at most
TWOmembers in each group. The emphasis is necessarily on fa cilitating student learning in
technical and project management spheres. Students have freedom to choose any
organization for their project development and develop a project based on real -world
requirements. Alternatively, they can develop and implement th eir own idea and create a
project based on their own innovation and interests.
Course Objective:
Up on successful completion of this course, students will be able to:
1.Develop real -world software application
2.Learn to develop high -quality project report
3.Develop technical knowledge in software development
4.Learn to manage time and resources
5.Learn effective team skills
Phases:
The overall project work is divided into three phases, proposal defense, pre -defense, and final
defense.
1.Proposal Defence

--- PAGE 2 ---
2Eachstudent must prepare a document in the prescribed proposal format proposing a
specific plan for her or his project work. This document is expected to make a convincing
case that the proposed project work is likely to make an original contribution. Students
must present their project proposal in the college. Once accepted, students can start their
project work under the supervision of a supervisor assigned from the college.
2.Project Pre Defence
Each student must prepare draft of the project report and present this report in the college
before final defence. Once approved, students will be allowed to participate in the final
defence.
3.ProjectFinalDefence
During final defense, each student must prepare a final report in the prescribed format
and present this final report. Students are expected to explain the project work justifying
the methods employed and the conclusions reached. External examiner (s)willbe
appointed from the Dean Office for the final defense.
Proposal Contents:
Title Page
Introduction
oIntroduction
oProblem Statement
oObjective
oDevelopment Methodology
Methodology
oRequirement Identification and Feasibility Study
oRelated Work / Literature Review
oAnalysis and Design Tools
oImplementation tools (Front End, Back End)
Expected Outcome
Project Schedule
References

--- PAGE 3 ---
3Report Contents:
Title Page
Student’s Declaration
Supervisor’s Recommendation
Approval Sheet
Acknowledgements
Abstract
Table ofContents
List of Figures
List of Tables
List of Abbreviations
Introduction (Chapter I)
oBackground of the Project
oProblem Statement
oObjectives
oReview of Related Work andLiterature
oDevelopment Methodology
oScope and Limitations
oReport Organization
SystemDevelopment Process(Chapter II)
oAnalysis(Requirement Analysis, Feasibility Study, Structured / Object -
Oriented Modelling)
oDesign(User Interface Design , Database Design / Object-oriented Design
Models)
oImplementation (Tools and Technologies Used, Module Description, Testing)
Conclusion and Recommendation (Chapter III)
oSummary
oConclusion
oRecommendation
References
Appendices

--- PAGE 4 ---
4Evaluation :
The overall project work will be evaluated by head /program coordinator, supervisor,
internal examiner, and external examiner (s).Marks allocation for theoverall evaluation is as
follows:
The supervisor will be allocated 50%ofthetotalmarks. The supervisor will evaluate
20% marks during pre -defense and remaining 30%marksduring final defense.
The internal examiner will be assigned 10% ofthetotalmarks. The internal examiner
will evaluate 5% marks during pre -defense and remaining 5% marks during final
defense.
Thehead /programcoordinator will be allocated 10%ofthetotalmarks. The head /
program coordinator will evaluate 5% marks during pre -defense and remaining 5%
marks during final defense.
Theexternal examiner (s)will be assigned 30% of the total marks.External examiner
(s)will evaluate this30%of the total marks.
ReportFormat:
1.Page Numbers
The pages from student’s declaration to the page before Chapter 1 should be numbered in
roman starting from i i. The pages starting from Chapter 1onwards should be numbered
in numeric starting from 1. These page numbers should be inserted at the bottom of the
page and aligned centre. Each chapter should begin on a new page.
2.Paper Size and Margin
The paper size should be A4 and the margins must be set as 1 inch for top, bottom, and
right and 1.5 inch for left.
3.Paragraph
All paragraphs must be indented and justified (both left -justified and right -justified). All
the paragraphs must be written using Times New Roman font with font size 12 and 1. 15
linespacing.

--- PAGE 5 ---
54.Headings
No more than 3 levels of headings should be used. Font size for the heading should be 16
for chapter heading, 14 for section headings and 12 for subsection headings. All the
headings should be written using Times New Roman fon twithbold faced. Chapter
headingsshould be centrealigned and section and sub -section heading should be left
aligned.
5.Figures and Tables
Figure captions should be centred below the figures and table captions should be centred
above the table s.All captions should be written using Times New Roman with font size
12, bold faced andcentrealignment. Tablesand figure s should be numbered using
chapter-wise numbering system . For example, first figure of Chapter 1 should be
numbered Figure 1.1, secon d figure should be numbered Figure 1.2 and so on.
6.References
References p rovide a list of papers, books and other publications that are explicitly
referred to in the text . The report should follow APA 7thstyle of citations and references.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6ExampleoftheTitlePage
TITLEOFTHE PROJECT REPORT
BY
Student’s Full Name
Student’s T.U.Registration No.
College Roll No.
NameoftheCampus/College
AProjectReportSubmitted to
FacultyofManagement, Tribhuvan University
inpartialfulfillment oftherequirements forthedegreeof
Bachelor ofInformation Management (BIM)
Place
Month/Year

--- PAGE 7 ---
7STUDENT DECLARATION
(Onplainpaper)
This is to certify that I have completed the Project entitled “(title of the project)” under the
guidance of “(name of the guide)” in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of
Bachelor of Information Management at Faculty of Management, Tribhuvan University.
This is my original work and I have not subm itted it earlier elsewhere.
Date: Signature:
Name:

--- PAGE 8 ---
9CERTIFICATE FROMTHESUPERVISOR
Thisistocertifythattheprojectentitled “ ” is an academic work done by “ ”
submitted in the partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of
Information Management at Faculty of Management, Tribhuvan University under my guidance
and supervision. To the best of my knowledge, the information presented by him/ her in the
project report has not been submitted earlier.
Signature oftheSupervisor
Name
Designation Date

--- PAGE 9 ---
10APPROVAL SHEET
This is to certify that the project titled [Title of the Project ] submitted by [Student Name ] has
been examined and approved .I n our opinion, it meets the required scope and quality standards
for a project submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of
Information Management (BIM).
Approval Panel:
S.No.Name Designation Signature
1Supervisor Name Project Supervisor
2Program Coordinator/Head Name Program Coordinator
3Internal Examiner Name Internal Examiner
4External Examiner Name External Examiner
Date of Defense: ……………………..
Department: [Department Name]
Faculty: [Faculty Name]

